# meeting2-20250311

## Slide 1

Small Molecule on Ice Surface

## Slide 2

Background
Ice surface appears in different environments and plays a crucial role in many fields.Formation of ice surface could affect 相互作用的形式。It affects how ice crystal grows in cloud, molecule abundance in diffuse cloud, design of anti-freezing battery.
More specifically, friction, adhesion, adsorption, reaction, and release of trace gases…
Planetary Formation
Cloud
Nat Energy 9, 839–848 (2024).The Astrophysical Journal Letters, 815(1) (2015)

Speaker notes:

- The dipole moment of water molecule allows it react with many substances.
- In low temperature, ice would interact with other molecules though its surface.
- The dynamics
- 行星形成: 星際溫度約為10K～100K,

## Slide 3

There are many types of ice interface that scientist interest:
metal @ liquid water
Surface of pure liquid water
Thin water layer on metal surface
Ice – water surface.
In the talk, we focus on ice – water surface.
The first thing we need to classify:
Where, and when will we see ice – water surface.
180K
125K
15K
HDA
LDA / Ic ice
Surface
reconstruction
Ih+Ic @ AIL
Diffusive
activation
QLL / LLL
200K
Space Environment
Earth Environment
273K

Speaker notes:

- 物質在冰表面有三種行為, 吸收, 放出, diffusion. 這三種行為都對應了不同的能量。在光譜上，我們可以在遠紅外的地方看到因為desorption而產生的吸收峰。
- 這個能量

## Slide 4

Background
Behavior on surface including adsorption, desorption, diffusion, (and chemical reaction).
Adsorption & Desorption are controlled by QM and related to protons.
Many astronomists would approximate the diffusive behavior as .
ACS Earth Space Chem., 6, 3, 597-630 (2022)BioResources, 14(3) (2019)

Speaker notes:

- 1. Best aligns with our experiment environment – very low temperature and highly vacuum.
- 2. In molecular clouds, since its quite dense in interstellar environment, so number of UV photon << number of h-atoms, so most of the reactions are not related to light.

## Slide 5

Interstellar Ice
Ice was found in the molecular clouds and comets last century.
They exist in different forms and varies.
ACS Earth and Space Chemistry 6.3 (2022): 597-630. , ACS Earth and Space Chemistry 2.7 (2018): 720-734.
Science 265.5173 (1994): 753-756.

## Slide 6

Measurement of Diffusibility on Surface
Indirect Method – PFG NMR
Apply magnetic gradient pulse to label the atoms, yielding an NMR signal .
Relax a long period .
Repeat (1), yielding an echo signal .
The diffusion coefficient is
*Pulsed Field Gradient Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
Direct Method – Microscopy
e.g. STM, AFM, FIM, …
Estimate from the definition:
.
Physical chemistry chemical physics 12.11 (2010): 2619-2624.

## Slide 7

Measurement of Binding Energy
TPD: coverage , measuring is equivalent to measure binding energy .
Step: heating up the sample “very slowly” (~hrs), using mass spectrometer to identify the type of molecules.
www1.udel.edu/pchem/C874/TPD.pdf, University of Delaware (2012)
www.youtube.com/watch?v=kzmBK9mONq8, openQCM (2014)
*Temperature-Programmed Desorption (TPD)

## Slide 8

Others: VSFS, IR, QCM, XPS, …

## Slide 9

How to determine the binding energy?
of one molecule depends on structure, dangling OH-bonds, and coverage.
is also multivalued when changing the sites.
ACS Earth and Space Chemistry 6.3 (2022): 597-630.
The Astrophysical Journal 904.1 (2020): 11.
symmetry
electric potential map
Determine structure
Find binding sites
Analysis BE!
*binding energy
*1000K ~ 0.09eV
HF
DFT
KMC
GCMC

## Slide 10

BE of Water Molecule on Ice Ih
Proton order affects BE - Define proton order
,
where means neighbor dangling bonds pair.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 109.33 (2012): 13177-13181.
Find binding sites
Generate structure by
stripe
disorder
inhomogeneous

## Slide 11

Vacancy Formation Energy of Water Molecule on Ice Ih
Nature materials 10.10 (2011): 794-798.
VFE is another form of BE when coverage is big. In ice, it also varies with the local electrostatic field, and the polarization of leaving H2O molecule.
VFE varies when

## Slide 12


## Slide 13

What if Ice Surface Encounters Premelting?
Our study indicates at 120K, ice surface will reconstruct! The AIL exists <180K also changes the game rule – all calculation at >120K does not reflect the real situation.
Nature 630.8016 (2024): 375-380.
*Amorphous ice layer

## Slide 14

What if Ice Surface Encounters Premelting?
The dipole moment distribution will be denser?
The vacancy formation energy is higher? ➔ the reactivity may change?
How different molecules bind and diffuse on this surface? And correlated with proton order?
Could we estimate the abundance of organic molecule more accurately – Of course, we can try to resolve some unidentified infrared emission bands.
