# meeting1-20241217

## Slide 1

Introduction of Enhanced Sampling In Molecular Dynamics

## Slide 2

Table of Contents
Background
  - Basic Concept of Enhanced Sampling
  - Collective Variables (CVs)
  - Bias-potential Based Methods
Theory
  - Basic concept of Adiabatic Free Energy Dynamics ( AFED )
  - Approximation of AFED: d-AFED / TAMD
  - Simple Example
Application
  - Background of Molybdenum (钼)
  - Free Energy Estimation and Speeding up transitional process

## Slide 3

Basic Concept of Enhanced Sampling
Limitation of MD:
Imbalance in accuracy and efficiency of interaction potential.
The trajectory is high-dimensional and noisy
- Thermodynamics information is hidden.
Timestep must be short while timescales must be long.
Some hard problems for MD:
Chemical reaction path
Phase Transition
Ligand Binding and Unbinding
=> We need method to Explore the phase space faster, find the free energy surface and figure out the transition path.

## Slide 4

Basic Concept of Enhanced Sampling
Collective Variables (CVs) : Functions that map from high-dimensional vectors to low dimensional vector , where .
CVs or the movement in CVs space carry the thermodynamic properties of the system.
E.g. order parameters, bond length, angles…
The Free Energy Surface with respect to CVs shows excited states and how the transition happens.
chiral carbon
alanine dipeptide
Bolhuis P G, Dellago C, Chandler D., PNAS, 2000, 97(11): 5877-5882.

Speaker notes:

- CVs
- Fast in local minima, slow in phrase transition.
- Can we treat the CVs as some particles?

## Slide 5

Basic Concept of Enhanced Sampling
The goal of enhanced Sampling is to accelerate the resolution of such Hamiltonian:
Bias-Potential based Methods: ( Metadynamics, Umbrella Sampling)
Modify the interaction by adding
Get modified Probability Distribution
Reweighting
Estimate the free energy via
Róg T, Girych M, Bunker A. Pharmaceuticals, 2021, 14(10): 1062.

Speaker notes:

- If Ma >> mi and we let the temperature of two types of particles

## Slide 6

Adiabatic Free Energy Dynamics
PART
Abrams J B, Tuckerman M E. JPCB, 2008, 112(49): 15742-15757.

Speaker notes:

- If Ma >> mi and we let the temperature of two types of particles

## Slide 7

Born-Oppenheimer approximation
Separating the motion of electron and nucleus because .
Adiabatic Dynamic Theory
The Collective variables could be some “particles” at .
Different temperature if it does not exchange energy with other particles.
If the FES could be calculated as:

## Slide 8

Adiabatic Dynamic Theory
Probability Distribution of CVs at .
Coordinate Transformation from to .
We can directly sample the distribution from dynamics, and the Hamiltonian becomes:
Select high s.t.
Set s.t.
Run two thermostats for
for
Transform
Output FES
AFED Simulation
Rosso, L.; Tuckerman, M. E. Mol. Simul. 2002, 28, 91.
Assuming and .
Abrams J B, Tuckerman M E. JPCB, 2008, 112(49): 15742-15757.

## Slide 9

Problems: NOT Easy to find r(q) and Jacobian
Adiabatic Dynamic Theory
Select high s.t.
Set s.t.
Run two thermostats for
for
Transform
and
Output FES
Expand the delta term in gaussian function,
The new Hamiltonian becomes,
Extra particles
Calculated from
New “degree of freedom”
The free energy surface is,
d-AFED/TAMD Simulation
Abrams J B, Tuckerman M E. JPCB, 2008, 112(49): 15742-15757.

## Slide 10

Radius of gyration
Simple Example of Alanine Dipeptide
Number of H-bonds
Gas ( 1ns, 12ns )
Solution ( 1ns )
( MD, d-AFED/TAMD )
Experiment
Simulation
0.73
1.0
0.93
0.9
Gas phase
Abrams J B, Tuckerman M E. JPCB, 2008, 112(49): 15742-15757.

## Slide 11

Application of Enhanced Sampling
PART
Rogal J, Schneider E, Tuckerman M E.; PRL, 2019, 123(24): 245701.

## Slide 12

Neural-Network-Based Path CVs of Phase Transformations
A15
BCC
disordered
A15 Phase ( A3B )spintronic devices, high performance materialtype II superconductivity
Rogal J, Schneider E, Tuckerman M E.; PRL, 2019, 123(24): 245701.

## Slide 13

Maps local environment using three Steinhardt parameters and 11 symmetry functions.
bcc
fcc
hcp
A15
dis
Neural-Network-Based Path CVs of Phase Transformations
Training data includes bcc, fcc, hcp, A15 MD data from 300K to 6000K.
Global attribute:
Rogal J, Schneider E, Tuckerman M E.; PRL, 2019, 123(24): 245701.

## Slide 14

Neural-Network-Based Path CVs of Phase Transformations
Constructing the path of length
A 1D path CV ,
For NPT simulation, a constrain potential is added based on the distance to the path.
Rogal J, Schneider E, Tuckerman M E.; PRL, 2019, 123(24): 245701.

## Slide 15

Neural-Network-Based Path CVs of Phase Transformations
d-AFED / TAMD
Metadynamics (21ns)
Using d-AFED / TAMD and MetaD, the system in NVT ensemble converts from A15 to bcc using only < 20 ns, while no-bias simulation needs ~10 ms.
Here, since only forward process is observed, (mismatch of crystal) The mean force for is
How can the author integrate the force without specify starting point?
For both MetaD and d-AFED / TAMD, giving the free energy around , aligns with previous work using Adaptive Kinetic Monte Carlo about .
Rogal J, Schneider E, Tuckerman M E.; PRL, 2019, 123(24): 245701.

## Slide 16

Neural-Network-Based Path CVs of Phase Transformations
In NPT ensemble, the simulation only runs in MetaD.
The forward barrier it much larger because no crystal strain provides energy here.
Reversed process looks like a step function because its consuming energy.
Forward process
Backward process
Rogal J, Schneider E, Tuckerman M E.; PRL, 2019, 123(24): 245701.

## Slide 17

Enhanced Sampling not only accelerates MD but also provides methods to estimate FES.
Slow process could be detangled from the system by creating a heavy particle representing CVs.
Combining NNs and Enhanced Sampling, We could model realistic interface mismatches and transformation mechanisms more accurately.
Conclusion
